I lost my wallet, and here’s why I’m really happy about it. 

Just kidding – I didn’t lose my wallet, but there is a connection between lost wallets and happiness.

It turns out, the chances of having a lost wallet returned to you has a surprisingly high impact on how happy you are – even if you don’t actually lose your wallet.

Social scientists have developed a set of questions they can ask to give a consistent happiness score out of 10.

In a Global Survey,  Different Countries Get Different Scores
[GRAPHIC/ANIMATION 1 - Showing some scores out of 10 in an interesting way]

[GRAPHIC/ANIMATION 2 - Happiness Impacts - Proportional arrows showing impacts maybe of the 4 things?]

Different life events or characteristics of your country can impact your happiness.

Job loss drops people about half a point on average – that makes sense.
Doubling your income only bumps people up 0.1 points – which is a bit surprising.
Doing good deeds like volunteering, donating to charity or helping strangers tends to bump happiness UP by about the same amount as losing your job knocks you down.

But here’s the weird one! If you think it’s very likely that a lost wallet will be returned in your neighbourhood, you tend to score 0.7 higher!  That’s a big impact. Why?

Social scientists think that expecting a lost wallet to be returned is a good proxy for how much trust and social connection exists in your neighbourhood – and feeling safe and connected in your community has SEVEN TIMES MORE IMPACT on your happiness than doubling your income.

[GRAPHIC/ANIMATION 3 - Show expected chance of return than reveal actual rate of return]

And here’s the icing on the cake! If you live in Ontario, it’s even more likely that your wallet will be returned than you think.

Scientists surveyed people in Toronto and they thought there was a 25% chance that a wallet would be returned – but when other scientists actually dropped wallets around the city 80% of the wallets were returned!

Do you think your neighbourhood or town would be higher or lower than Toronto?

Either way, let’s make the effort to connect with neighbours and community organizations like libraries and city council to keep building the trust that gets wallets returned and makes us happier!

Follow the Reconnection Project on social media or join your local newsletter if that sounds good to you.

To see our sources and learn more, check out the World Happiness Report.


